# Communication Mechanisms

#### インターフェイスをどう実装するか、コントロールせよ
* Microservices should have some level of control
in how they implement their interfaces.

#### ネットワークレベルとアプリレベルのプロトコルは、柔軟であれ
* Both the network level protocol and the application level protocol should provide some level of flexibility.

* Using Google Protocol Buffers over raw TCP could be just as available as using JSON RPC over HTTPS.
* the macro-architecture should provide some guidance, some restrictions, and maybe even some infrastructure to help facilitate communication.

## URI の名前空間作るなら、標準ガイダンスが必要になる
* If a microservices infrastructure is going to work together in a common domain name space under HTTPS URIs
* then you will want standardization around the naming and routing. * The requests should have a common and consistent method
* by which ingress user requests as well as
* service-to-service requests are authenticated, authorized, and routed.

## an operations-managed messaging bus
* A microservices infrastructure which wants to permit the use of messaging as a communication device
* should consider providing an operations-managed messaging bus.
* This enables rapid development and deployment of services
* without teams needing to first focus on starting
* and then long-term managing a messaging service.

### メッセージングサービス？を使うと、疎結合もすすむ
* It also fosters decoupling of services which want to communicate through the messaging service
* if I have to know which messaging queuing service each service uses, I am growing more coupled.

## メッセージレイヤーを作ると、メッセージルーティングも柔軟になる
* Providing the infrastructure for your messaging layer also enables you to provide message routing to your services
* something which can greatly enhance the flexibility of your macro-architecture.
* The ability to route requests through different versions of a service based on various criteria
* affords a lot of flexibility and helps to further maintain decoupling.
