It’s All About Size…
The reality here is that the smaller your organization, the smaller your needs for a fully fledged microservices architecture. However, there is no reason to abandon the entire movement and leaving behind the benefits these very smart people have realized, even when you are a small shop with small services.

Your initial microservices macro-architecture conversations need to focus on precisely what you need to get started and then figure out how to get that into place. Build some services, observe their behaviors, and learn from what is and is not working for you.

Reconvene your microservices macro-architecture committee and use your new found experience along with your healthy reading and growing understanding of the industry-wide ecosystem to determine what the next evolution of your macro-architecture must be. Rinse and repeat. Iterate.

Your microservices macro-architecture should continuously evolve right alongside the every day, iterative development you already do.
We live and breath this “agile” world of iterative design and development. There is very little reason that it should not apply to the infrastructure surrounding our services. Even if you never actually realize a fully idealized microservices architecture, but you have these architecture conversations and continually add small iterations of infrastructure and macro-architecture — you will have reaped many of the benefits over time.

Most importantly, because you focus each iteration of the microservices macro-architecture from a position of what you need at-the-time, you will have spent your time on the most valuable components of your organization.

Perhaps you started with a healthy CI/CD pipeline that took over 85% of your existing monolithic development jobs. Dividends! Next, you standardize your deployments into docker images and provide tooling around launching, migrating, and rolling back new versions. Dividends! Then add in consistent logging and monitoring, and you start to visualize and report on messaging flows through your systems. Dividends! Now as you are adding new services, you realize that the coupling of services talking directly to one another is holding you back, and you add a messaging service to your infrastructure and begin moving some functionality to event-based triggers. Dividends!

I do not believe you need to be Amazon or Netflix to reap the benefits of a microservices architecture. In some cases, you can use the knowledge of how these architectures work inside of a single monolith, and the dividends can be quite rich indeed.

From the start, or years after the monolith begins to fail under its own weight, you can use the knowledge of how to separate services to shore it up and make it more stable. A monolith which is internally designed with good separation between services makes an easy target for microservices when success demands more from it. (Just realize that it takes architects to maintain the integrity of a monolith, and beyond the start of a system it will be difficult to achieve long-term.)
