# Egg について
https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/formats.html

曰く、「STOP! This is not the first document you should read!」


A “Python egg” is a logical structure
embodying the release of a specific version of a Python project, comprising its code, resources, and metadata.


 a key principle of Python eggs is that they should be discoverable and importable.
 That is, it should be possible for a Python application to easily and efficiently find out what eggs are present on a system,
 and to ensure that the desired eggs’ contents are importable.

## two basic formats currently implemented for Python eggs:
Both formats can include arbitrary Python code and resources, including
static data files, package and non-package directories, Python modules, C extension modules, and so on.


### .egg format:
a directory or zipfile containing the project’s code and resources, along with an EGG-INFO subdirectory that contains the project’s metadata

well-suited to distribution and the easy uninstallation or upgrades of code,
since the project is essentially
self-contained within a single directory or file,
unmingled with any other projects’ code or resources.
It also makes it possible to have multiple versions of a project simultaneously installed,
such that individual programs can select the versions they wish to use.





### .egg-info format の概略
a file or directory placed adjacent to the project’s code and resources, that directly contains the project’s metadata.

created to support backward-compatibility, performance, and ease of installation for system packaging tools
that expect to install all projects’ code and resources to a single directory (e.g. site-packages).
Placing the metadata in that same directory simplifies the installation process,
since it isn’t necessary to create .pth files or otherwise modify sys.path to include each installed egg.

### .egg-info format の欠点
it provides no support for clean uninstallation or upgrades,
and of course only a single version of a project can be installed to a given directory.

### package management tool が必要
Thus, support from a package management tool is required.
(This is why setuptools’ “install” command refers to this type of egg installation as “single-version, externally managed”.)

### インストールに必要な情報が不足している
they lack sufficient data to allow them to be copied from their installation source.
easy_install can “ship” an application by copying .egg files or directories to a target location,
 but it cannot do this for .egg-info installs,
 because there is no way to tell what code and resources belong to a particular egg –
 there may be several eggs “scrambled” together in a single installation location,
  and the .egg-info format does not currently include a way to list the files that were installed.






## ベースロケーション
.egg format
the base location is the .egg itself.

### インポート可能にするために sys.path に追加するもの
That is, adding the .egg filename or directory name to sys.path makes its contents importable.

## ベースロケーション
.egg-info format
the base location is the directory that contains the .egg-info,

### インポート可能にするために sys.path に追加するもの
it is the directory that must be added to sys.path to make the egg importable.

 (Note that this means that the “normal” installation of a package to a sys.path directory is sufficient to make it an “egg” if it has an .egg-info file or directory installed alongside of it.)






# Project Metadata 普通のファイルと egg とが異なる理由
* メタデータがあることが、コードとリソースのみを含んだ sys.path にあるファイルと egg とを区別する

## 格納場所
For the .egg format
the metadata is placed in an EGG-INFO subdirectory, directly within the .egg file or directory.

For the .egg-info format
metadata is stored directly within the .egg-info directory itself.




# 各種メタデータ

## PKG-INFO
The minimum project metadata that all eggs must have
a standard Python PKG-INFO

.egg-info format
 eggs are not required to be a directory; they can just be a .egg-info file that directly contains the PKG-INFO metadata.
This eliminates the need to create a directory just to store one file.


.egg formats
since setuptools always includes other metadata.
(In fact, setuptools itself never generates .egg-info files, either;
 the support for using files was added so that the requirement could easily be satisfied by other tools, such as distutils).
