# ▼ Implementation of two-phase locking

2PL is used by **the serializable isolation level** in MySQL (InnoDB) and SQL Server, and **the repeatable read isolation level** in DB2 [23, 36].

The blocking of readers and writers is implemented by a having a lock on each object in the database.
The lock can either be in shared mode or in exclusive mode.

### The lock is used as follows:
*
If a transaction **wants to read** an object, it must first acquire the lock **in shared mode**.
Several transactions are **allowed to hold the lock in shared mode simulta neously** but if another transaction already has an exclusive lock on the object, these transactions must wait.

*
If a transaction **wants to write** to an object, it must first acquire the **lock in exclusive mode**. No other transaction may hold the lock at the same time (either in shared or in exclusive mode), so if there is any existing lock on the object, the transaction must wait.

*
If a transaction first reads and then writes an object, it may **upgrade its shared lock to an exclusive lock.** The upgrade works the same as getting an exclusive lock directly.

*
After a transaction has acquired the lock, it **must continue** to hold the lock **until the end of the transaction (commit or abort)**.
This is where the name “two- phase” comes from:
**the first phase** (while the transaction is executing)
is when the locks are acquired, and
**the second phase** (at the end of the transaction)
is when all the locks are released.

##### deadlock
Since so many locks are in use,
it can happen quite easily that
transaction A is stuck waiting for transaction B to release its lock, and vice versa. This situation is called deadlock.
**The database automatically detects deadlocks** between transactions and **aborts one of them** so that the others can make progress. **The aborted transaction needs to be retried** by the application.
