# Predicate locks
In the preceding description of locks,
we glossed over a subtle but important detail.

In “Phantoms causing write skew”
 we discussed the problem of **phantoms**—that is, one transaction changing the results of another transaction’s search query. **A database with serializable isolation must prevent phantoms.**

In the meeting room booking example
this means that if one transaction has searched for existing bookings for a room within a certain time window (see Example 7-2),
another transaction is not allowed to concurrently insert or update another booking for the same room and time range.
(It’s okay to concurrently insert bookings for other rooms, or for the same room at a different time that doesn’t affect the proposed booking.)

#### Phantoms 対策
Conceptually, we **need a predicate lock**.

**the shared/exclusive lock** は、特定のOBJに紐づく(e.g., one row in a table)

### Predicate lock belongs to all objects that match some search condition, such as

```sql
SELECT * FROM bookings WHERE room_id = 123 AND
end_time > '2018-01-01 12:00' AND start_time < '2018-01-01 13:00';
```
### predicate lock が制限するアクセス
* If transaction A wants to **read objects matching some condition**,
like in that SELECT query,
it must acquire **a shared-mode predicate lock** on the conditions of the query. If another transaction **B currently has an exclusive lock** on any object matching those conditions, **A must wait until B releases its lock** before it is allowed to make its query.

* If transaction **A wants to insert, update, or delete any object**, it must first check whether either **the old or the new value matches any existing predicate lock**. If there is a matching predicate lock held by transaction B, then **A must wait** until B has committed or aborted before it can continue.

#### predicate lock はまだDBに存在していないOBJに対しても適用される
The key idea here is that
a predicate lock applies even to objects that do not yet exist in the database,
but which might be added in the future (phantoms).

If two-phase locking includes predicate locks,
the database prevents all forms of write skew
and other race conditions,
and so its isolation becomes serializable.
