# Performance of serializable snapshot isolation

As always, many engineering details affect how well an algorithm works in practice.

For example, one **trade-off** is
#### the granularity at which transactions’ reads and writes are tracked.
* If the database keeps track of each transaction’s activity in great detail,   
it can be precise about which transactions need to abort,
* but the bookkeeping overhead can become significant.
* Less detailed tracking is faster, but may lead to more transactions being aborted than strictly necessary.

#### In some cases, it’s okay for a transaction to read information that was overwritten by another transaction:

* depending on what else happened, it’s sometimes possible to prove that  
the result of the execution is nevertheless serializable.
PostgreSQL uses this theory to reduce the number of unnecessary aborts [11, 41].

### the big advantage of serializable snapshot isolation
* Compared to two-phase locking, the big advantage of **serializable snapshot isolation** is that
* one transaction doesn’t need to block waiting for locks held by another transaction.
* Like under snapshot isolation, writers don’t block readers, and vice versa.
* This design principle makes query latency much more predictable and less variable.

#### read-only queries can run on a consistent snapshot without requiring any locks,
* which is very appealing for read-heavy workloads.

Compared to serial execution,
#### serializable snapshot isolation is not limited to the throughput of a single CPU core:
* FoundationDB distributes the detection of serialization conflicts  
across multiple machines,  
allowing it to scale to very high throughput.

#### Even though data **may be partitioned across multiple machines**,
* transactions can read and write data in multiple partitions  
while ensuring serializable isolation [54].

#### The rate of aborts significantly affects the overall performance of SSI.
* For example, a transaction that reads and writes data  
over a long period of time is likely to run into conflicts and abort,

* so SSI requires that **read-write transactions be fairly short** (long- running read-only transactions may be okay).
* However, SSI is probably less sensitive to slow transactions than two-phase locking or serial execution.
