# Dirty reads
* One client reads another client’s writes before they have been committed.
* The read committed isolation level and stronger levels prevent dirty reads.

# Dirty writes
* One client overwrites data that another client has written, but not yet committed.
* Almost all transaction implementations prevent dirty writes.

# Read skew (nonrepeatable reads)
* A client sees different parts of the database at different points in time.
* This issue is most commonly prevented with snapshot isolation,
* which allows a transaction to read from a consistent snapshot at one point in time.
* It is usually implemented with multi-version concurrency control (MVCC).

# Lost updates
* Two clients concurrently perform **a read-modify-write cycle**.
* One overwrites the other’s write without incorporating its changes, so data is lost.
* Some implementations of snapshot isolation prevent this anomaly automatically,   
while others require a manual lock (SELECT FOR UPDATE).

# Write skew
* A transaction reads something,
* makes a decision based on the value it saw,
* and writes the decision to the database.
* However, by the time the write is made, the premise of the decision is no longer true.
* Only serializable isolation prevents this anomaly.

# Phantom reads
* A transaction reads objects that match some search condition.
* Another client makes a write that affects the results of that search.
* Snapshot isolation prevents straightforward phantom reads,  
but phantoms in the context of write skew require special treatment,  
such as index-range locks.

##  弱い隔離にできないことが、シリアライザブル隔離にはできる。。。欠点も大きいが
* Weak isolation levels protect against some of those anomalies
* but leave you, the application developer, to handle others manually
* (e.g., using explicit locking).
* Only serializable isolation protects against all of these issues. We discussed three different approaches to implementing serializable transactions:

# Literally executing transactions in a serial order
* If you can make each transaction very fast to execute,
* and the transaction throughput is low enough to process on a single CPU core,
* this is a simple and effective option.

# Two-phase locking
* For decades this has been the standard way of implementing serializability,
* but many applications avoid using it
* because of its performance characteristics.

# Serializable snapshot isolation (SSI)
* A fairly new algorithm that avoids most of the downsides of the previous approaches.
* It uses an optimistic approach, allowing transactions to proceed without blocking.
* When a transaction wants to commit, it is checked,
* and it is aborted if the execution was not serializable.
