# Timeouts and Unbounded Delays
* If a timeout is the only sure way of detecting a fault, then how long should the timeout be?
* There is unfortunately no simple answer.
#### 長いタイムアウト
* A long timeout means a long wait until a node is declared dead
* (and during this time, users may have to wait or see error messages).
#### 短いタイムアウト
* A short timeout detects faults faster, but carries a higher risk of incorrectly declaring a node dead
* when in fact it has only suffered a temporary slowdown
* (e.g., due to a load spike on the node or the network).

### 時期尚早な死亡宣言は問題あり
#### 二度やっちゃう
* if the node is actually alive
* and in the middle of performing some action (for example, sending an email),
* and another node takes over,
* the action may end up being performed twice. We will discuss this issue in more detail in “Knowledge, Truth, and Lies” on page 300, and in Chapters 9 and 11.
#### そいつが死んだら誰かが引き継がねば
#### 引き継ぎは高負荷なので、高負荷 On 高負荷 が発生しうる
* When a node is declared dead, its responsibilities need to be transferred to other nodes,
* which places additional load on other nodes and the network.
* If the system is already struggling with high load,
* declaring nodes dead prematurely can make the problem worse.
* In particular, it could happen that the node actually wasn’t dead
* but only slow to respond due to overload; transferring its load to other nodes can cause
* a cascading failure (in the extreme case, all nodes declare each other dead, and every‐ thing stops working).

## ▼ タイムアウトは 2d + r でよかろうなのだ(理想論)
* a fictitious system with a network
#### 一定時間内に配信できなきゃパケットロスト方針
* guaranteed a maximum delay for packets
*  →IOW, every packet is either delivered within some time **d** or it is lost,
* but delivery never takes longer than **d**.

#### 生きてるノードが r 時間内にリクエストを処理できる、と保証できるならば
* Furthermore, assume that you can guarantee that a non-failed node always handles a request within some time **r**.
* In this case, you could guarantee that every successful request receives a response within time **2d + r**—
* and if you don’t receive a response within that time,
* you know that either the network or the remote node is not working.
* If this was true, **2d + r** would be a reasonable timeout to use.

## ▼ 上記保証できるシステムなんて殆どないのだ
* Unfortunately, most systems we work with have neither of those guarantees:
* asynchronous networks have unbounded delays
* (that is, they try to deliver packets as quickly as possible,
* but there is no upper limit on the time it may take for a packet to arrive),
* and most server implementations cannot guarantee that they can handle requests within some maximum time
## 失敗検知は早いだけじゃ不十分なのだ
* For failure detection, it’s not sufficient for the system to be fast most of the time:
* if your timeout is low, it only takes a transient spike in round-trip times
to throw the system off-balance.
